# Encoders:

- Definition:
  - Electro-mechanical device that converts linear or angular position of a shaft to an analog or digital signal, making it an linear/angular transducer.

---

# Wheel/motor encoders

- Use cases:
  - Measure position or speed of the wheels or steering
  - Integrate wheel movements to get an estimate of the spotiion -> odometry
  - Optical encoders are proprioceptive sensors
  - Typical resolutions 64 - 2048 increments per revolutiton.
  - For high resolution: interpolation.
- Working principle of optical encoders
  - regular: counter the number of transition but cannot tell the direction of motion
  - Quadrature: users two sensors in quadrature phase shift. The ordering of which wave produces a rising edge first tells the direction of motion. Additional, the resolution is 4 times bigger.
  - A guided slot in the outer track generates a reference pulse per revolution.

---

# Heading Sensors

- Definition:
  - Heading sensors are sensors that determine the robot's orientation and inclination with respoect to a givven reference
- Heading sensors can be proprioceptive (gyroscope, accelerometer) or extractive (compass, inclinometer)
- Allows, together with an appropriate velocity information, to integrate the movement to a position estimate.
  - This procedure is called deduced reckoning (ship navigation).

---

# Compass

- Used before 2000 BC
  - When Chinese supeseded a piece of natural magnetite from a silk thread and used it to guide a chariot over land.
- Magnetic field on earth
  - Absolute measure for orientation  (even birds use it for migrations (2001 discovery))
- Large variety of solutions to measure magnetic or true north
  - mechanical magnetic compass
  - Direct measure of the magnetic field (hall-effect, magneto-resistive sensors)
  - Gyrocompass (non-magnetic, finds true north by using fast-spinning wheel and friction forces in order to exploit the rotation of the earth) -> used on ships.

---

# Gyroscope

- Definition:
  - Heading sensors that preserve their orintation in relation to a fixed reference frame
  - They provide an sbolute measure for the heading of a mobile system
- Two categories, the mechanical and the optical
  - Mechanical
    - Standard gyro  (angle)
    - Rate gyro (speed)
  - Optical
    - Rate gyro (speed)