# Convolution

- Convolution is equivalent to Correlation with a flipped filter before correlating
- Likewise, in 2D we flip the filter both horizontally and vertically

---

# Edge detection

- Ultimate goal of edge detection: an idealized line drawing
- Edge contours in the image correspond to important scene contours
- Edge: intensity discontinuity in one direction
  - Intro: How to detect an edge?

---

# 1D Edge detection

- Image intensity shows an obvious change
- Solution: Smooth first
  - Soften the signal by applying filters
  - Steps:
    - Signal
    - Kernel
    - Convolution
    - Differentiation

---

# Derivative theorem of convolution 

- This saves us one operation
  - No smoothing required

---

# 2D Edge detection

- Find gradient of smoothed image in both directions
- Discard pixels with an edge strength below a certain threshold
- Non-maximal suppression: identify local maxima of edge strength (delta S) detected edges.

---

# Point Features

- Edges
- Points
  - Harris corners
  - SIFT features
  - and more recent algorithms from the state of the art

---

# Example: Build a panorama

- Features points are used also for:
  - Robot navigation (optical flow)
  - Object recognition
  - 3D reconstruction
  - Motion tracking
  - Indexing and database retrieval => google images or tinyeye.com

---

# How to build a panorama?

- We need to match images
- Detect features points in both images
- Find corresponding pairs
- Use these to align images

---

# Matching with features

- Problem 1:
  - Detecting the same points independently in both images, if they are in the field of view
    - We need a repeatable feature detector
- Problem 2:
  - For each point, identify its correct correspondence in the other image(s).
    - We need a reliable and distinctive feature descriptor.

---

# Harris Corner detector

- C. Harris and M. Stephens - 1988

---

# Identifying Corners

- Key property: in the region around the corner, image gradient has two or more dominant directions.
- Corners are repeatable and distinctive
- How do we identify corners?
- Shifting a window to any direction should give a large change in intensity in at least 2 directions.
- Flat region: no intensity change in all 8 directions
- Edge: no change along the edge direction
- Corner: significant change in at least 2 directions

---

# How do we implement this?

- Two image patches of size P one centered at (x,y) and one centered at (x + delta x, y + delta y)
- ... check slides for math ...

---

# Corner response function

- Does the patch P describe a corner or not?
  - No structure:
    - SSD is almost constant in all driections, so its a flat region
  - 1D structure:
    - SSD has a large variation in only one direction, which is the one perpendicular to the edge.
  - 2D structure
    - SSD has large variations in all directions and then we are in presence of a corner.
- This computation is expensive
  - Harris and Stephens suggested using a "cornerness function" instead.

---

# Harris detector: properties

- Repeatability:
  - How does the Harris dtector behave to common images trsnformation?
  - Will we be able to re-detect the same image patches (Harris corners) when the image exhibits changes in:
    - Rotation
    - View-point
    - Zoom
    - Illumination?
  - Adapt and adjust accordingly
- Rotation invariance:
  - Corner response should be invariant to image rotation
- But: non-invariant to image scale!
  - Scaling the image by x2 produces a 20% of correspondences get detected.
- Summary:
  - Most widely used and known corner detector
  - The detection is invariant to 
    - Rotation
    - Linear intensity cahnges
  - The detection is not invariant to
    - Scale changes

