# Bag of Words

- Extension to scene/place recognition
  - Is this image in my database?
  - Robot: Have I been to this place before?
    - Loop closure problem, kidnapped robot problem

---

# Efficient Place/Object Recognition

- We can describe a scene as a collection of words and look up in the database...

---

# Vocabulary Tree

- Hierarchical partitioning
- Populate tree with model images

---

# Inverted File Index

- Inverted file DB lists all possible visual words
- Each words points to a list of images where the word occurs
- Voting array: has many cells as images in the DB - each word in query image, votes for an image

---

# FABMAP (2.0)

- Place recognition for robot localization
- Use training images to build the BoW database
- Probabilistic model of the world
  - Consider the world as a set of discrete places
  - Place = a vector of occurances of visual words in the local scene
- At a new frame, compute:
  - P(being a known place)
  - P(being at a new place)
- Captures the dependencies...

---

# Robust object/scene recognition

- Visual vocab holds appearance information but discards the spatial relationships between features
- Two images with the same features shuffled around in teh image will be a 100% match when using only appearance information
- If difference arrangements of the same features are expected then one might use geometric verification.

---

# Image histograms for place recognition

- Aim: achieve compact representation of each scene
  - Smooth the input image (using Gaussian filter)
  - Image representation = a set of 1D histograms describing the RGB components of the current image and its hue saturation, and luminance
- Image similarity criterion: divergence of histograms between query image and database
- Make use of the entire image (instead of salient key points as in BOW approaches)

---

# Line extraction

- Uncertainties - representation and propagation
- Line extraction from point clouds

---

# Uncertainty Representation

- Sensing in the real world is always uncertain
  - How can uncertainty be represented or quantified?
  - How does uncertainty propagate?
  - What s the merit of all this for mobile robotics?
- Use probability density function to characterize the statistical properties of a variable.

---

# The Error Propagation Law

- Image extracting a line based on point measurements with uncertainties
- Model parameters in polar coordinates
- The question:
  - What is the uncertainty of the extracted line knowing the uncertainties of the measurements points that contribute to it?
- Error propagation in a multiple-input multi-output system with n inputs and m outputs.

