#Generational language context

3rd generation language:

- C++
- Java
- How to do -> procedural -> file systems

4th generation language:

- SQL = standardized query language
- What to do -> non-procedural -> database systems

---

#Why file system isn't the way to go

- Less security in comparison to database system
  - In the in class example, the professor talks about how giving read access to a file allows the entire file to be read while in contrast in a database system, you can allocate read access down to only a select number of specific rows.
- Formatting issues
  - We cannot natively enforce a specific text format
  - ie line endings, comma separation, etc
    - Database systems are different in the sense that the formatting of data is handled natively by the query language. The required format being the proper SQL you wish to enter to retrieve results from the database. Database data is formatted automatically by the application in question.
- Data redundancy
  - A file system cannot stop duplicate entries. Database systems allow for primary keys to be placed on the ID field that prevents duplicate entries from being added to a table (for example).
- (note from self) - All these examples are pretty heavy handed in enforcing the idea that a database is the way to go (which it is), but comparing a bike (using a file system to store data) to a motorcycle (using a database system to store data) is a bit unfair.

---

#Database  system pros

- Better security
  - Access rights all the way down to giving access to specific values
- Enforce constraints
  - Columns/data must meet a specific requirement(s) (characters/length, data type, unique values, format (dates and what not), etc)
- Reduced redundancy
- Program data independence
  - The data is not dependent on the program. SQL literally means standardized query language. It is the current standard querying for most relational databases.
  - "Data can be changed and still work for the same program."
- Concurrency control
  - Concurrency is already handled natively by the database system (hopefully). A file system would require that the user programmed/implemented that him/herself
- Recovery
  - Back up that data, boi
  - Professor alludes to transactions within database (start transaction, commit, etc).

---

# Database system cons

- Price
  - Lol
- Complexity of setting up
  - A bit more reasonable. Setting up more than a single instance of a database to communicate to another in a cluster system is never an easy feat.
- Learning curve
  - This is reaching a bit as its dependent on something other than the database system
- Database are stored in disks
  - Memory is volatile
  - Professor isn't mentioning indexed information that is cached to RAM
- Databases are usually huge
  - Data query optimization is a huge part of database system management.

---

#Standardization

ANSI - SPARC

- Three schema architecture
  - Schema : metadata
  - Metadata : information about data
- Three schemas: (ICE)
  - I : Internal schema
    - How data is physically stored
      - Indexes
      - Fragmentation
  - C : conceptual schema
    - Global view - overall view
      - Everything that you can see within the database
      - I suppose using root in phpmyadmin would be a good example of this
  - E : External schema
    - Group view
      - This is a subset of the global view. A user may not see all tables that exist in the database.

