  # Software Engineering

  - Projects
    - Teams will be sorted out next Thursday
  - Lecture structure
    - First part theory
    - Brief overview of what I will be talking about the next lecture
    - Then some application  (probably unrelated to the theory).

---

  # Contents

  - Theory
    - Software engineering defined
    - Software specification
    - Software design and implementation
    - Software validation
    - Software evolution
    - Quick discussion of change
  - Application
    - Singleton OO software design pattern
    - Presentation of the project

---

  # Definition

  - Software engineering is the establishment and use of sound engineering principles in order to economically...
  - The application of a systematic, disciplined, quantifiable approach to the development, operation, and maintenance of software; that is, the application of engineering to software
  - Software that we write technically never dies. When software is implemented, customers will use far longer than its expiration date.
    - Maintaining legacy systems is an important aspect of software engineering.

---

  # Challenges

  - Software is soft. It is intangible. You cannot touch it. This is quite different from the physical devices that mechanical engineers design and construct, for example.
  - There are few, if any, laws of software that can be universally applied. Software engineers have not arrived at a consensus about how to measure their products' properties, such as program size.
    - Plenty of debate as to the formatting, style, process, etc is the best.
  - Software is not mass produced. Although you may ccopy and release a particular program such as an operating system to millions of customers, you still need to build only one actual program.
  - The specifications for software continuously change, even late in the development cycle. This is an unfortunate reality as such requirements changes _can/may/will_ occur continuously with software, regardless of development cycle.

---

# Processes

- "I have a problem"
- Customer / User dynamic
    - Internal vs External
    - Experienced vs Inexperienced
  - Management
- Feasibility study
  - Typically initially involves management and senior level engineers
    - Time and prioritization
    - Resources
    - Expertise
  - Go or no go?
  - "Can your developers handle the project in N days/weeks/months/year"
- Requirements elicitation
  - Customers
  - DEV team
  - QA team
- Requirements analysis
  - Existing systems/data
  - Prototypes (spike solutions)
    - Quick solutions to explore risky aspects
- Results in a specification document(s)
    - Translates the elicitation and analysis into one or more ocuments or contracts
    - High level
        - Problem definition
        - User stories
        - Workflows
        - Deliverables
    - More detailed
        - Systems
            - Typically will already exist and you must map your solution to what is available
        - Software architecture
- Requirements validation
    - Realism
        - Some requests will just be unreasonable. Always to be expected with non technical customers.
    - Consistency
    - Completeness
        - The customer doesn't always know _everything_ they want. 


---

# Design and implementation

- One way to understand this process is as the activity of converting the high level requirements obtained during the specification process into more detailed and accomplishable tasks.
  - Clearly defined and easily digestible tasks will be created, assigned, and implemented.
- May have already created some prototypes (spike solutions).
- Design and related initial development
  - Architecture
    - Components
    - Interfaces
    - Database\
- When UML (universal modeling language) is used, it is commonly used at this stage as a means to depict:
  - Software architecture
  - Database schema
- Side note: Initial development may see very few interesting products.
  - Instead this is the stage of building the system skeleton that will support all the actions and controls that make software useful
  - The framework will set the tone of the project.

---

# Verification and validation

- Code reviews
- Test Driven Development (TDD)
- Shared testing
  - DEVs test the functionality implemented by other team members.
- System testing
  - Environments: Dev, Test, QA, and Production (live)
- Acceptance testing
  - Necessary but sometimes difficult to facilitate
    - Testers/users already have a job and won't have time to perform the amount of detailed testing that is usually required.
    - Testers/users may not have much technical expertise (or too much to be representative of an uninitiated user).
      - Underrated point. Experienced users understand how to navigate significantly better than unexperienced which may be a hint that the overall design is not intuitive for an unexperienced user.

---

# Evolution

- Depending on your workplace, more often than new development you will be asked to make changes to existing legacy systems.
  - This can be big difference from the work you perform in a educational setting.
- It can be difficult to modify legacy systems
  - Data, APIs, UI, etc.
  - Even small changes can have large and/or unforeseen consequences.
  - There are ways to mitigate these consequences which we will cover as we get further into the semester.

---

# Change

- Software engineering is all about dealing with change.
  - Building new concepts out of thin air.
  - Updating existing systems to include...
- Avoidance
  - Exploration of problems through prototyping and related methodologies.
  - Will always be incomplete.
- Tolerance
  - Design of systems.
  - Will be discussed throughout the semester.
- But the reality is we need both.

---

# What we will cover next lecture

- Plan-driven methodologies used to manage the processes/activities we covered in this lecture.
- Working with a database.
- Building design pattern.
- oodesign.com
  - Singleton pattern
    - Used for centralized management of internal/external resources...