**Software Engineering**

---

# Evolutionary Methodologies

- Assigning teams today (end of lecture).
- Project meetings next week instead of lectures.
- The heavyweight, plan-driven methodologies often were not working.
  - Once a product is delivered what is the purpose of all that documentation that precedes development?
    - Quickly becomes stale and irrelevant because keeping it up to date can take longer than actual development.
    - Storage and retrieval?
    - Represents significant cost for companies and a headache for developers.
  - Requirements often change faster than the lifespan of the project.
    - What is implemented is no longer desired.
- Invalid project scopes
  - Software engineers are expected to have some level of omniscience when it comes to scoping projects.
  - Must be defined up front and cover large bodies of work.
  - Leads to project overrun, "scope creep", and incomplete functionality.
- Customers are generally bad at defining and communicating what they want.
  - It is part of your job, as a software engineer, to help customers be more accurate, but is often difficult to do.
  - Black box of plan-driven development does not help.

---

# Agile

- These, and others, reasons led to the so-called "agile" methods.
- Manifesto
  - Individuals and interactions over processes and tools.
  - Working software over comprehensive documentation
  - Customer collaboration over contract negotiation
  - Responding to change over following a plan
- Examples implementations:
  - XP, Lean, Crystal, Scrum

---

# Agile - Key Concepts

- Easy and continuous delivery.
- Welcome changing requirements.
- Deliver working software frequently.
- Business people and developers should work together daily.
- Build the project around motivated people, trust them to accomplish the tasks.
- Should be able to maintain a constant pace indefinitely.
- The best architectures, requirements, and designs emerge from self-organizing teams.

---

# Agile - Extreme Programming (XP) 

- Incremental development
  - Simple user stories (specification)
  - Frequent releases

---

# Agile - User Story

- As a customer (user or role)
- I want to see a list of recent orders (business functionality)
- So that I can track my purchases with a company (business justification)

---

# Agile - Extreme Programming (XP)

- People
  -  Paired programming (design and implementation)
  - Each programmer owns the entire codebase

---

# Agile - Paired Programming

- Managers are often wary of this idea because they are concerned that output will be diminished. This is usually not the case
  - Multiple perspectives on problems.
  - One can drive (low-level) while the other navigates (high-level)
  - Continuous informal review because of two people
- More typical is a single developer per task with brief interactions with other developers when a problem is encountered and a final, formal review process.

---

# Agile - Extreme Programming  (XP)

- Customer involvement
  - Part of the development team
    - You should expect limited interaction in reality
  - Confirms releases match requirements (validation)
- Change is allowed for
  - Regular releases
  - TDD
    - Test driven development
  - Clean code principles

---

# Agile - Test driven development

- Test first development (TFD) is important innovation of XP.
- Tests serve as a means to prove that code matches requirements.
- TFD prescribes that you first build the test then build the code that the test evaluates.
  - More specifically you write a test that fails and then you write code that meets that functionality.
- Typically TDD is taken to mean the process of creating unit tests which are a group of succinct and isolated tests that when combined should cover the functionality of the task being implemented.

---

# Agile - Extreme Programming (XP)

- Maintaining simplicity
  - Do not unnecessarily anticipate future changes
    - Often interpreted as "if you don't need it for what you are building now then don't build it"
    - Often too limited an interpretation and can lead to extra work later on when a refactoring is required.
    - As developers mature they often anticipate frameworks, abstractions, interfaces, and the like that will be required later ad will ease development if built earlier.

---

# Agile - SCRUM

- XP is quite prescriptive in its approach to Agile. Another approach,SCRUM, is less so.
- Typically involves 3 phases
  - Objective
  - ...
  - ...
- It intentionally allocates time for analysis of the problem, initial development, and risk analysis.
- Yet the incremental series of sprints provides releases to the customer and allows them to update requirements.
- Project closer allows for minimal, basic documentation (when required).
- "My preferred approach and is common."
- The main development part of the process is defined as a series of sprints.
  - Fixed in duration
  - Stand ups
  - Planning meetings
    - SCRUM master
    - Demonstration of working code
    - Code reviews
    - New task definitions
    - Backlog
    - New task assignments

---

# Agile - Wrap up

- The good, the hype, and the ugly
- The ugly
  - Rejects upfront tasks (particularly requirements)
  - User stories are not abstract enough
  - Dismissal of traditional manger tasks
  - SCRUM master as a separate role
  - Dismissal of auxiliary products
  - Dismissal of a priori concern for extensibility
- The good
  - Frequent iterations
  - Accept change
    - Instead of embracing change
  - Emphasis on working code
  - Tests as a key resource
  - Constant test regression analysis
  - Regular meetings
- Brilliant
  - Short iterations
  - Closed window rule
    - Not always possible
  - Continual refactoring
    - Not as a substitute for design
  - Associating a test with every piece of functionality
    - Not necessarily test first, but test with
  - Continuous integration.

---

# What we will cover next lecture

- Project meetings instead of lectures
  - You are only required to attend udinr your team's meeting time
- 02/06/2018 will be our first guest presentation
  - Paul Martin from CaseStack

---

# Version Control Systems

- **Git**, Mercurial, SVN, CVS
- Init
- Remote
- Add
- Commit
- Push
- Clone
- Pull
- Merge

---

