# Requirements

- We have talked a bit about requirements already.
  - A lot of what will be presented today is more in the context of a traditional approach
    - Requirements specification has been refined by the plan-driven methodologies.
  - Important regardless of whether you use a plan-driven or evolutionary approach
- User and System

---

# User

- "I have a task that needs to be implemented"
  - Very high level, general and abstract idea
- Service that an implemented system should provide to users along with any associated constraints.

---

# System

- User requirements broken out into their detailed parts.
- Defines what is to be implemented
  - Can serve as the agreement (contract) between the customer and the development team.
- Are further broken down into...

---

# System requirements

- Functional
  - Statements of service the system should provide
  - How the system should react to particular inputs
  - How the system should behave in particular situations
- Non-functional
  - Timing, standards, performance, reliability, development processes
  - Represent constraints on the services or functions offered by the system.
  - Apply to the system as a whole, rather than individual system features or services.

---

# Functional System Requirements

- Can vary in the level of detail.
- All the functional requirements should be complete and consistent.
  - Very difficult, especially for large systems.
- Incomplete requirements occur for lots of reasons.
  - Domain knowledge isn't as well understood by developers
  - Natural language is often ambiguous.
  - Over-generalization of difficult concepts
    - What is common to these that I chose? Communication.

---

# Requirement Discovery

- Some of the most common methods are...
  - Interviews
    - Be on the lookout for domain knowledge.
    - The more you interact with a customer the better you will be able to incorporate the specific language into your conversations.
    - Early on you may have to include definitions with your requirements.
  - Scenarios
    - Features
      - Real life examples instead of abstract ideas
      - From a developers perspective they can be a useful tool to explain caveats or inconsistencies of a system in a way that a customer can understand.
    - Components
      - Expected start conditions
      - Normal flow of control
      - Description of what can go wrong and how it is handled
      - Information about other related and concurrent activities
      - Expected end conditions
  - Use cases
    - Components
      - Identifies the users (human or non-human) of a system
      - Interactions with a system
      - The links between the two
    - Implementation
      - Often a diagram with textual details
      - Can represent a single scenario or a group of scenarios
  - User stories
- Because of their anecdotal nature, scenarios and users stories are mostly useful for defining functional requirements.

---

# Requirements documentation

- After determination the next step is to oraganize and record requirements. This document is called
  - Software requirements document/speficiation
  - Functional specification
- This document is flexible
  - Usually there will be existing formats within your team for you to mimic
  - Level of detail required depends on the project
  - Serves a different purpose depending on the role of the person reading it
  - Written in natural language with accompanying tables and diagrams as necessary
    - Natural language is accessible to the most people