# Writing code

- There are differences between the code you write for school and that which is required in a professional environment.
- Clean code is always important, but particularly in agile methodologies
  - Code is the primary source of documentation.
- Leave checked-in code a litter cleaner than when you checked it out.
  - Means taking responsibility for code:
    - That you may not have authored
    - That is outside the scope of your current task
  - Unit test provide much, but not all, of the confidence to make changes in code that you are unfamiliar with.
- All day, every day we have to name things. Naming functions, variables, classes, interfaces, files, etc.
  - Names are everywhere so it is important to do it well.
- Use intention-revealing names
  - Context is out only hope, but that is flawed at best.
- Make meaningful distinctions
  - Verbose variable and parameter names to describe the actions being performed.
- Use searchable names
  - Single character names should be avoided except where generally accepted
    - (counter variables)
  - Avoid magic numbers
- Avoid mental mappings
  - Again, avoid single letter names
    - How doe 'r' tell us that the variable is the lower-cased version of the url with the host and scheme removed?
  - Clarity is king
    - The name should represent what the thing is or does
      - Classes and object should be nouns or noun phrases
      - Methods should be verbs or verb phases
    - Be careful with abbreviations
- Functions should be small
  - 20 to 30 lines
    - Most code checkers put the limit at 50 lines
  - This can be taken with a grain of salt
    - If you are writing a method that buildsa an object it can somteimes take more than 50 lines.
      - Though maybe that object needs to be broken up into smaller components.
  - Regardless 99% of your functions should be of this size.
- Functions should do one thing They should do it well. They should do it only.
- One level of abstraction per function.
  - High:
    - Requesting a webpage
  - To intermediary:
    - Looking at individual elements in a result
  - To low:
    - Building strings
- Extract error handling
  - Move the try/catch/finally block to its own method.
- Arguments/parameters
  - The ideal number of arguments is zero, up to two is manageable, three should be avoided, and four or more requires fustification
- Have no side effects:
  - Side effects are lies: your function does one thing, but it also does other hidden things.
  - Typically side effects take the form of changing variables: either an argument class-level, or global.
- Don't repeat yourself
  - Avoid duplication
  - Duplication is an opportunity to separate the functionality into a reusable component.
  - One source of duplication, copy and paste, will more often than not get you in trouble. It is lazy coding.
  - What happens when someone else updates the code in one place but doesn't know about the other duplications elsewhere?
- Formatting
  - Always use the beginning and ending desinators for a block of code
    - Never rely on horizontal formatting to indicate that a single line of code is associated with an if statement or a loop
  - Vertical and horizontal formatting
    - Be consistent. Consider it your signature
    - Vertically group associated things close together.
- Comments
  - You should use comments sparingly, only when necessary
    - Comments have a tendency to go stale as code is updated. Generally end up being clutter or even misinformation
    - If you practice the principles of clean code then generally your code should be enough of a description of what is happening
    - Avoid redundant comments
  - When to comment
    - Tricky pieces of code
    - Amplify seemingly inconsequential pieces of code
    - When your other professors require it.
- Summary:
  - In a professional environment most coding involves updating existing code. It is extremely important to be able to read and understand the code that you will be expected to change.
  - As the primary source of documentation for any project, effort must be taken to produce clean code. Never settle for anything less.
  - It is inconvenient, it requires effort, it is systematic, but it makes life so much easier as the code base grows.